Hey guys welcome back.
So far we've discussed the common types of videos you might create and the reasons you'd use video to
accomplish marketing goals.
If you're considering creating videos then you should know that creating them is in many ways just like
creating other stuff like a blog post or like an info graphic.
There's usually can be three phases of development you go through if you for anything you create.
Now the first step is usually preparation or research a second step you begin actually building the
piece whatever it is and then the last after you fine tune your work for you publish it.
Now video projects are just like that.
But one big difference is that video requires some additional skills and technology.
Let them say first phase of a video project is known as pre-production and that's the preparation and
research stage you assemble all the pieces you'll need to create the video.
Like writing the script and the storyboard you'll figure out what locations you want to shoot and maybe
it's multiple Maybe it's just one.
What equipment you're going to use.
You also identify people who might be in your video and the people who will help behind the scenes.
So a lot of what happens in pre-production involves making arrangements and preparing for the next phase.
Now second phase of any video project is what we call production.
That's when you actually create the piece of your video.
When you produce it you'll use your camera to shoot the footage or your webcam.
You're going to set up lights to make it look nice and hopefully use microphones so people who can hear
you without it sounding like crown of morals.
All that prep you did in pre-production will hopefully make the production phase is painless as possible.
So then the third and final phase of a video project is going to be called the you can probably guess
that the post-production super original.
This is the part where you take everything you created in production and put it all together into a
finished piece.
You'll use editing software to cut the video together.
You'll make sure everything looks and sounds good and you'll add any additional facts like words or
graphics on the screen or explosion.
Now if you're still unsure about what some of those things I talked about are that's fine because in
the next series of lectures we're going to walk through each phase of the video production process and
discuss everything you need to know.
We'll talk about options for different apps you can use to create all the pieces you need for video
and how to work within whatever budget you have in mind.
So if you're ready to dive in her let's move on to the next lecture.